.\" $Id: sccs2rcs.man,v 6.1 1994/07/18 15:37:23 tom Exp $
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp .5
..
.hy 0
.TH SCCS2RCS 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBsccs2rcs\fR \- build RCS file from SCCS file preserving deltas.
.
.SH USAGE
.PP
\fBsccs2rcs\fI [options] [file-specifications]
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBSccs2rcs\fR reads an \fIsccs\fR archive, analyzes its revision history
and issues commands to the \fIrcs\fR checkin program to construct an
equivalent \fIrcs\fR archive.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This is an enhanced version of a utility \fBsccstorcs\fR, which translates
an \fIsccs\fR archive into an \fIrcs\fR archive.
The program reads the archive, extracts the version numbers and comments
and applies them to construct an equivalent archive in \fIrcs\fR format.
.
.PP
There are two enhancements made.
The fundamental change is that this utility preserves the time stamp
information when translating.
.
.PP
The secondary enhancement detects \fIsccs\fR keywords in the file,
and replaces them by an \fIrcs\fR identifier.
This works by searching for the string "@(#)" in each line,
and replacing from that point til the end of the line (or the
next quote character) with the \fIrcs\fR "Id" keyword.
.
.PP
When keyword replacement is specified, the utility also looks for
a suitable place to insert the \fIrcs\fR "Log" keyword.
It does this by scanning each line that begins with the same
string specified for the comment-prefix option, skipping
whitespace and looking for (ignoring case) one of the following
keywords, terminated by a colon:
.
.RS
last,
modified,
revised,
revision,
updated,
update
.RE
.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.
.TP
.BI \-c " string"
specifies the comment-prefix option in the \fIrcs\fR file.
You should use this option when you use the "\fB\-e\fR" option
to translate keywords.
.
.TP
.B \-e
attempts to replace \fIsccs\fR keywords by \fIrcs\fR keywords.
.
.TP
.B \-q
quiet, tells the \fIsccs\fR and \fIrcs\fR utilities to shut up.
This option is overridden by "\fB\-v\fR".
.
.TP
.B \-v
verbose, controls the amount of messages that describe what
the program is doing.
Repeat this option to show the contents of the \fIsccs\fR file header.
.
.TP
.B \-t
shows what would be done, but doesn't do it.
.
.SH FILES
.PP
\fBSccs2rcs\fR uses the following files
.TP
\fBgetdelta\fR
A wrapper for the \fIsccs\fR utility \fBget\fR that checks out a file
keeping its modification time the same as the original checkin time.
.
.TP
\fBcheckin\fR
A wrapper for the \fIrcs\fR utility \fBci\fR that checks in a file preserving
its modification time.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
sccsfile\ (5), rcs\ (5), get\ (1), getdelta\ (1), checkin\ (1)
.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Ken Greer
.br
Modified by Thomas Dickey (dickey@clark.net) to preserve time stamps, and
to convert keywords.
